Clarify contribution rules for Riot/MatrixSDK on Android (#2783)
vector-im/riot-android: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing code to Matrix

> Please read file https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst

Author: done

# Specific rules for Matrix Android projects

## Compilation

Riot Android uses by default the Matrix Android SDK (library `matrix-sdk.aar`).
At each release, this library is updated.
Between two releases, the Riot code may not compile due to evolution of the library API.
To compile against the source of the Matrix Android library, please clone the project [AndroidMatrixSdk](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-android-sdk)
 and run the following command:
 
> ./compile_with_sdk_project.sh

## CHANGES.rst

Please add a line in the file CHANGES.rst describing your change.

## Code quality

Make sure the following commands execute without any error:

> ./tools/check/check_code_quality.sh
> ./gradlew lintAppRelease

## Unitary tests

Make sure the following commands execute without any error:

> ./gradlew testAppReleaseUnitTest

## Internationalisation

When adding new string resource, please only add new entries in file `value/strings.xml`. Translations will

>  be added later by the community of translators with a specific tool named Weblate.

Author: done

# Contributing code to Matrix

Please read https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst

Android support can be found in this [Matrix room](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#riot-android:matrix.org).

# Specific rules for Matrix Android projects

## Compilation

Riot Android uses by default the Matrix Android SDK library (file `matrix-sdk.aar`).
At each release, this library is updated.
Between two releases, the Riot code may not compile due to evolution of the library API.
To compile against the source of the Matrix Android library, please clone the project [AndroidMatrixSdk](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-android-sdk)
 and run the following command:
 
> ./compile_with_sdk_project.sh

## I want to help translating Riot

> If you want to fix issue on English string, please submit a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to fix an issue with an English string, please submit a PR.
```

> If you want to fix issue on other languages, or add missing translation, or even add new language, please use [Weblate](https://translate.riot.im/projects/riot-android/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to fix an issue in other languages, or add a missing translation, or even add a new language, please use [Weblate](https://translate.riot.im/projects/riot-android/).
```

## I want to submit a PR to fix an issue

> Please check if a corresponding issue exist. If yes, please let us now in a comment that you're working on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please check if a corresponding issue exists. If yes, please let us know in a comment that you're working on it.
```

> If issue does not exist yet, it may be relevant to open a new issue and let us now that you're implementing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an issue does not exist yet, it may be relevant to open a new issue and let us know that you're implementing it.
```

### CHANGES.rst

Please add a line in the file `CHANGES.rst` describing your change.

### Code quality

Make sure the following commands execute without any error:

> ./tools/check/check_code_quality.sh
> ./gradlew lintAppRelease

> ### Unitary tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unit tests
```

Make sure the following commands execute without any error:

> ./gradlew testAppReleaseUnitTest

### Internationalisation

> When adding new string resource, please only add new entries in file `value/strings.xml`. Translations will be added later by the community of translators with a specific tool named [Weblate](https://translate.riot.im/projects/riot-android/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding new string resources, please only add new entries in file `value/strings.xml`. Translations will be added later by the community of translators with a specific tool named [Weblate](https://translate.riot.im/projects/riot-android/).
```

Do not hesitate to use plurals when appropriate.

### Layout

> When adding or editing layouts, make sure the layout will render correctly if device uses RTL (Right To Left) language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding or editing layouts, make sure the layout will render correctly if device uses a RTL (Right To Left) language.
```
